Add `Vocaloid Mapping Contest` news post and wiki article (#9235)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Contests/VMC/1/en.md

---
tags:
  - VMC1
  - VMC
---

# Vocaloid Mapping Contest

> ![VMC banner](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1092234806479298680/1096272980310495272/banner_e.png)

Reviewer: put the banner image as `Contests/VMC/1/img/banner.png`, not hotlinked like this.

```suggestion
![VMC banner](img/banner.png)
```

| Judge | ::{ flag=US }:: [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323), ::{ flag=US }:: [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548)[^judge_note], ::{ flag=CA }:: [Shanipika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6336729), ::{ flag=CN }:: [Mafumafu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3076909), ::{ flag=SV }::[Natsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1953876), ::{ flag=US }:: [tutuhaha](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/546991) |
| Designer | ::{ flag=VE }:: [Mithia](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9748438) |

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| 1st place | 6 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points), *VMC Winner* profile badge, assistance in the ranking process |
| 2nd place | 2 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd place | 1 month of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

All participating mappers received constructive feedback from some of the most well-known vocaloid mappers in the community.

## Links

> - [Contest news article](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/)
> - [Contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/)
> - [VAT Discord server](https://discord.gg/EruvDHaReY)
> - [Results news article](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/)
> - [Results]()
> - [Results stream VOD]()

Reviewer: @pishifat assuming that a contest listing is actually slated for this one

```suggestion
- [Announcement news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-05-01-vocaloid-mapping-contest)
- [Contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/177)
- [Discord server](https://discord.gg/EruvDHaReY)
```

> ## Results
> 
> TBD
> 

Reviewer: don't include placeholder sections

```suggestion
```

> ## Ruleset

Reviewer: space 

```suggestion
## Ruleset

```

- **Submissions must be for the osu! ruleset only.** Comparing beatmaps of different modes in a judging scenario is unfortunately not realistic.
- **Submissions must use one of the [selected songs](#songs)**
- **Submissions must be in `.osz` format.**
- **Beatmaps should abide by the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).** While we can be forgiving for mistakes, submissions that could not be ranked without major changes will be disqualified.
- **Submissions must not be publicly revealed until after the results are announced.**
- **Excluding metadata, submissions must not include anything that could reveal your identi.** Metadata will be anonymized before submissions are relayed to judges.
- **Collaborations are not allowed**. This is a solo contest.
- **Submissions must not include storyboards or videos.**
- **Do not edit any settings in the .osu that would not be possible through the editor itself.** You are permitted to change any difficulty settings, backgrounds, green lines, SV, hitsounds, etc.
- **You must submit only one difficulty.** Only one entry is allowed.

> ## Judging Criteria

Reviewer: sentence case for headings

```suggestion
## Judging criteria

```

| Overall Impression | 20 | This contest is judged by some of the most prominent vocaloid mappers in the community, and you better bet that all of them have a personal bias with regard to how vocaloid songs are mapped. Judges will give comments regarding their scoring.
| Hitsounding | 5 | Rankable hitsounds can get up to 2 points, but hitsounds that fundamentally add to the experience and compliment the map in a unique way can get the full 5 points.

## Songs

Five (5) songs were selected from the Featured Artist library. These songs were selected based on several factors, including whether they had been ranked in the past, as well as providing a variety of genres and artists to choose from.

### MIMI - Moment (3:34 / 126 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/77/osz/MIMI%20-%20Moment.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/77/osz/MIMI%20-%20Moment.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">

> </audio>

Reviewer: you'll have to delete these previews because html is not supported in the wiki. please convert this whole section into a table

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/104/osz/Omoi%20-%20Ohne%20Herz.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### MuryokuP - My Savior (2:49 / 190 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### Yunosuke - Ziqqurat (3:52 / 163 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### Rohi - Hitotsu no Chikai yo (2:35 / 130 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

## Notes

> [^judge_note]: ::{ flag=US }:: [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548), while being the "host", did not have access to judging/screening information or un-anonymised submissions. The title refers to his capacity in creating and and starting the contest. The responsiblity of managing the contest while it was in operation was the responsiblity of the Staff.

Reviewer: this note is unnecessary, please remove

| Hitsounding | 5 | Rankable hitsounds can give up to 2 points, but hitsounds that fundamentally add to the experience and complement the map in a unique way can give the full 5 points. |

## Songs

Five (5) songs were selected from the Featured Artist library. These songs were selected based on several factors, such as whether they have been ranked in the past, or whether their inclusion would provide a variety of genres and artists to choose from.

| Song | Length | BPM | Template |
| :-: | --: | --: | :-- |
| [MIMI](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/77) - Moment | 3:34 | 126 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/77/osz/MIMI%20-%20Moment.osz) |
| [Omoi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/104) - Ohne Herz | 3:26 | 210 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/104/osz/Omoi%20-%20Ohne%20Herz.osz) |
| [MuryokuP](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/120) - My Savior | 2:49 | 190 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.osz) |
| [Yunosuke](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/244) - Ziqqurat | 3:52 | 163 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.osz) |

> | [Rohi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/82) - Hitotsu no Chikai | 2:35 | 130 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Rohi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/82) - Hitotsu no Chikai yo, Eien no Uta to Nare | 2:35 | 130 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz) |
```

---
tags:
  - VMC1
  - VMC
---

# Vocaloid Mapping Contest

![](/wiki/Contests/VMC/1/img/banner.png)

The [**Vocaloid Mapping Contest (VMC)**](/wiki/Contests/VMC) is all about finding and promoting VOCALOID, UTAU, and other vocal synth songs and artists that have fallen through the cracks. Mappers were tasked with creating the best beatmap possible, and then having them judged by some of the most prominent VOCALOID mappers in the community. 

> In all subsequent VMC's there will be an associated theme. This could include songs based around a song theme, such as an artist, genre, voicebank, or a map theme/limitation. We will never pick a song that has been ranked in osu! within the last ~10 years, and we always try to pick songs that are particularly relevant and timeless.
> 

Reviewer: - wrong register; don't use "we"
- there's no point in including this type of announcement in this article, especially since this iteration doesn't seem to even have a theme

```suggestion
```

## Contest schedule

| Event | Timestamp |
| --: | :-- |
| Announcement | 2023-05-01 |

> | Submission | 2023-05-01 to 2023-05-31 |
> | Judging | 2023-06-01 to 2023-06-24 |

Reviewer: tournament and contest pages use this format

```suggestion
| Submission | 2023-05-01/2023-05-31 |
| Judging | 2023-06-01/2023-06-24 |
```

| Results | 2023-07-01 |

> ## Staff and Judges

Reviewer: for consistency with other tournament/contest pages

```suggestion
## Organisation
```

| Designer | ::{ flag=VE }:: [Mithia](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9748438) |

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| 1st place | 6 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points), *VMC Winner* profile badge, assistance in the ranking process |
| 2nd place | 2 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd place | 1 month of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

All participating mappers received constructive feedback from some of the most well-known vocal synth mappers in the community.

## Links

- [Announcement news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-05-01-vocaloid-mapping-contest)
- [Contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/177)
- [Discord server](https://discord.gg/EruvDHaReY)

## Ruleset

- **Submissions must be for the osu! ruleset only.** Comparing beatmaps of different modes in a judging scenario is unfortunately not realistic.

> - **Submissions must use one of the [selected songs](#songs)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Submissions must use one of the [selected songs](#songs).**
```

- **Submissions must be in `.osz` format.**
- **Beatmaps should abide by the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).** While we can be forgiving for mistakes, submissions that could not be ranked without major changes will be disqualified.
- **Submissions must not be publicly revealed until after the results are announced.**
- **Excluding metadata, submissions must not include anything that could reveal your identity.** Metadata will be anonymised before submissions are relayed to judges.
- **Collaborations are not allowed**. This is a solo contest.
- **Submissions must not include storyboards or videos.**

> - **Do not edit any settings in the .osu that would not be possible through the editor itself.** You are permitted to change any difficulty settings, backgrounds, green lines, SV, hitsounds, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Your submission must not have any edits to the .osu that would not be possible through the editor.** You are permitted to change any difficulty settings, backgrounds, green lines, SV, hitsounds, etc.
```
fits the style of other rules

> - **You must submit only one difficulty.** Only one entry is allowed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Your submission must have only one difficulty.**
```
if you're using the osu contest listing, it's implied that only one submission is allowed anyway

## Judging criteria

| Position | Points | Description |

> | :-- | :-- | :-- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :-- | --: | :-- |
```

| Relevance | 30 |  How well does the map fit the song? Do the elements of the map match the elements of the song, and is the map fundamentally inseparable from the song it is paired with? |

> | Creativity | 25 | How unique and outstanding is the map and the elements within it compared to the current mapping meta? How well does it stand out from the crowd? Did you make the judges say "wow!", "that's cool!", or "that's super interesting!"? Generic mapping that just copies the current mapping meta or concepts from other "famous" maps is discouraged. |

Reviewer: removing "you"

```suggestion
| Creativity | 25 | How unique and outstanding is the map and the elements within it compared to the current mapping meta? How well does it stand out from the crowd? Does it evoke a feeling of "wow!", "that's cool!", or "that's super interesting!"? Generic mapping that copies the current mapping meta or concepts from other famous maps is discouraged. |
```

> | Expertise | 20 | This refers to how well the map executes the elements it presents. This encompasses the technical skills of the mapper, and also the consistency, structure, and style of the map. Judges will score this entry considering the overarching picture of the map, and will avoid nitpicking small details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expertise | 20 | This refers to how well the map executes the elements it presents, encompassing the technical skills of the mapper, as well as the map's consistency, structure, and style. Judges will score this entry considering the overarching picture of the map, and will avoid nitpicking small details. |
```

> | Overall Impression | 20 | This contest is judged by some of the most prominent VOCALOID mappers in the community, and you better bet that all of them have a personal bias with regard to how these songs are mapped. Judges will give comments regarding their scoring. |

Reviewer: more neutral

```suggestion
| Overall Impression | 20 | The VOCALOID mappers participating as judges for this contest will all have personal biases with regard to how these songs are mapped. The judges will provide comments regarding the score they give. |
```

> | Hitsounding | 5 | Rankable hitsounds can get up to 2 points, but hitsounds that fundamentally add to the experience and compliment the map in a unique way can get the full 5 points. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Hitsounding | 5 | Rankable hitsounds can give up to 2 points, but hitsounds that fundamentally add to the experience and complement the map in a unique way can give the full 5 points. |
```

## Songs

> Five (5) songs were selected from the Featured Artist library. These songs were selected based on several factors, including whether they had been ranked in the past, as well as providing a variety of genres and artists to choose from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Five (5) songs were selected from the Featured Artist library. These songs were selected based on several factors, such as whether they have been ranked in the past, or whether their inclusion would provide a variety of genres and artists to choose from.
```

| Artist | Song | Length | BPM | Template |

> | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | 
> | MIMI | Moment | 3:34 | 126 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/77/osz/MIMI%20-%20Moment.osz) |
> | Omoi | Ohne Herz | 3:26 | 210 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/104/osz/Omoi%20-%20Ohne%20Herz.osz) |
> | MuryokuP | My Savior | 2:49 | 190 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.osz) |
> | Yunosuke | Ziqqurat | 3:52 | 163 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.osz) |
> | Rohi | Hitotsu no Chikai | 2:35 | 130 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :-: | --: | --: | :-- | 
| [MIMI](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/77) - Moment | 3:34 | 126 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/77/osz/MIMI%20-%20Moment.osz) |
| [Omoi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/104) - Ohne Herz | 3:26 | 210 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/104/osz/Omoi%20-%20Ohne%20Herz.osz) |
| [MuryokuP](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/120) - My Savior | 2:49 | 190 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.osz) |
| [Yunosuke](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/244) - Ziqqurat | 3:52 | 163 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.osz) |
| [Rohi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/82) - Hitotsu no Chikai | 2:35 | 130 | [.osz](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz) |
```
